Assisted Practice: 2.5 Set Up Selenium Grid

This section will guide you to:
●	Set up Selenium Grid, which includes setup of Hub and Nodes

This lab has three subsections, namely:
2.5.1 Setting up Selenium Grid hub
2.5.2 Setting up Selenium Grid Nodes
2.5.3 Pushing the code to your GitHub repositories

Step 2.5.1: Setting up Selenium Grid hub
a.	Download Selenium standalone Server jar file from https://www.seleniumhq.org/download/ link
 
b.	Save it in a folder 
c.	Go to command prompt
d.	Navigate to folder structure where you have saved the  Selenium standalone Server jar file
e.	Type the below command in command prompt
        		Java -jar selenium-server-standalone-3.141.59.jar -role hub and click on Enter button
 
f.	Open the Chrome browser
g.	Enter URL as http://localhost:4444/grid/console and click on Enter 
h.	Grid console page is loaded as below
 

Step 2.5.2: Setting up the Selenium Grid Nodes
a.	Once the Selenium Grid Hub is set up, the next step is to set up Selenium Grid nodes.
b.	Open the new command prompt
c.	Navigate to the folder structure where you have saved the Selenium standalone server jar file
d.	Type the below command in command prompt
              java -jar selenium-server-standalone-3.141.59.jar -role node -hub 	http://localhost:4444/grid/register and click on Enter button, which looks like
  
e.	Open the browser
f.	Enter URL as http://localhost:4444/grid/console and click on Enter 
g.	Grid console page is loaded below, which shows Browsers by default	
 
h.	Click on Configuration, which shows Configuration details  			  	 


Step 2.5.3: Pushing the code to your GitHub repositories
●	Open your command prompt and navigate to the folder where you have created your files.
cd <folder path>
●	Initialize your repository using the following command:
git init
●	Add all the files to your git repository using the following command:
git add .
●	Commit the changes using the following command:
git commit .  -m “Changes have been committed.”
●	Push the files to the folder you initially created using the following command:
git push -u origin master

